ROS:
1. Launch the ximea camera to start publishing images.
roslaunch ximea_ros_cam 3DMapping_cam.launch

2. Obtain the software package for calibration.
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-camera-calibration

3. Follow the instructions on how to calibrate.
http://wiki.ros.org/camera_calibration

MATLAB:
Intrinsic Camera Calibration Steps
(Doc Work in Progress)

Note:
If we alter the camera we will have to calibrate it again.
Don’t touch or alter the camera after it is calibrated.

Four things to know :
Size of the square (108 mm)
No. of internal corners over the width
No. of internal corners over the height
in matlab execute `format longG` for maximum precision
Data Collection:
Try to get 80 to 100 images for each camera with diff skews and rotations. There will be scenarios when the checkerboard gets skewed or distorted.
Don’t get images that are too close to the camera or too far away.

Matlab Steps:
Start Matlab and go to apps. -> Camera Calibrator (for intrinsics)
We use a pinhole camera model with radial and tangential distortion.
Add Images -> fromfile-> Select all images for the camera.
Size of the checkerboard square -> 108 mm
Distortion coefficients are generally 5 – 3 radial and 2 tangential.
There is a skew parameter – But we don’t select it
Select these options to increase the number of parameters used to characterize distortion
Radiation Distortion:
✓  3 Coefficients
Compute
✓ Skew
✓ Tangential Distortion
Hit Calibrate
Look at Overall Mean error- after calibration – If it less than 0.2 it is good.
Select the images that are too close or too far, remove and recalibrate. (Or select the bar in the graph and slide it down to select the outliers)
Export Camera parameters -> Export estimation errors to be checked (for future reference)
It is good to save the session
Save the camera params and estimation errors
Matlab transposes the intrinsic matrix – Remember to transpose it back to get the actual intrinsic matrix
Two things that we need after the calib is done
Distortions – Radial and tangential
Intrinsic Matrix
Create a YAML file (Refer any sample in calibration_verification/data/intrinsics/intrinsic/halfmodel/)
Distortion vector
[radial1, radial2, tangential1, tangential2, radial3]
